I hatched the plan.
hatch hætʃ 孵化 舱门 秘密策划

appreciate the brilliance of this plan
əˈpriːʃɪˌeɪt  感激；欣赏  ˈbrɪljəns  才华

let me get my ears pierced
ɪə  pɪəs  刺穿

hoops  huːp  large ring

she threw a fit  and smashed her Johnny album
θruː a fit  大发雷霆  smʌʃ  打碎  ˈælbəm

she can't come to my pajama sleepover party.
pəˈdʒɑːmə  睡衣  ˈsliːpˌəʊvə  在朋友家过夜

That's fascinating.
ˈfæsɪˌneɪtɪŋ  迷人的

Loyalty gave way to desire and Garrett, the turncoat told Sherry what I was up to.
dɪˈzaɪə  渴望  ˈtɜːnˌkəʊt  背叛者,变节者

goo-goo eyes  gu:gu 媚眼

My only consolation was that next year would be different.
ˌkɒnsəˈleɪʃən  安慰

dazzling eyes ˈdæzəl  耀眼，灿烂

he was so embarrassed, his cheeks turned completely red. 
ɪmˈbærəs  tʃiːk 脸颊 

Sherry Stalls was nothing but a whiny, gossipy, backstabbing flirt. All hair and no substance.
ˈwaɪnɪ 爱抱怨  ˈɡɒsɪpɪ 喜饶舌的  ˈbækˌstæb  以卑鄙的手段陷害  flɜːt 调情的人，卖弄风骚的人 ˈsʌbstəns 物质；实质；主旨；资产

I knew a boy of Bryce's caliber would eventually see through a shallow conniver like Sherry Stalls.   
ˈkælɪbə 口径；才干  ˈʃæləʊ 浅处 变浅  kəˈnaɪvə  假装不见,默许,共谋,纵容  者

They broke up at recess. rɪˈsɛs 休息 休假；休会；休庭

Bryce was out of Sherry's evil clutches, 
ˈiːvəl  klʌtʃ 紧握 

watermelon ˈwɔːtəˌmɛlən 西瓜

sycamore ˈsɪkəˌmɔː  无花果树

the tree looks particularly beautiful  pəˈtɪkjʊləlɪ  特别地

challenge ˈtʃæləndʒ  挑战

weed wiːd 野草

It bug my dad bigtime. bʌɡ 烦扰

that piece of crap he calls a yard  kræp  废话；废物；屎

The Three Stooges  stuːdʒ 喜剧里的配角或丑角

You are trespassing and obstructing progress on a contracted job.
ˈtrɛspəs 罪过；打扰，冒犯；非法侵入  əbˈstrʌkt  阻止，妨碍；阻塞  ˈkɒntrækt 另有收缩的意思

Juli was frantic. ˈfræntɪk 狂乱的，疯狂的

that mutant tangle of gnarly branches
ˈmjuːtənt  突变的 ˈtæŋɡəl 纠纷；混乱  ˈnɑːlɪ  好的；棒的  brɑːntʃ

That girl has an iron backbone. ˈbækˌbəʊn  脊梁骨

She's just stubborn  and she's pushy beyond belief.
ˈstʌbən 固执的  ˈpʊʃɪ  有进取心的；爱出风头的；固执己见的，一意孤行的

she's been stalking me since the second grade.
stɔːk 花梗追踪 潜随  茎，秆

Without prejudice. ˈprɛdʒʊdɪs 偏见

meadow ˈmɛdəʊ 草地；牧场

the sun peeking through the trees is just a beam of light. piːk 偷看，窥视

breeze briːz 微风

I sprained my, um I have a rash
spreɪn  扭伤  ræʃ 皮疹

some days they were a blazing orange  bleɪz 熊熊燃烧

the streaks of light  striːk 条纹

rhomboids and isosceles right triangles didn't seem so important.
rɔmbɔid  菱形  aɪˈsɒsɪˌliːz  二等边的  ˈtraɪˌæŋɡəl  三角形

stump stʌmp 树桩

used to be the earth's most magnificent sycamore tree. mæɡˈnɪfɪsənt 宏伟的 

my feelings about eggs were solidified. səˈlɪdɪˌfaɪ  (使)凝固

a slimy reptile ˈslaɪmɪ  粘滑的  ˈrɛptaɪl  爬虫动物

chew tʃuː 嚼

I think it's gross. ɡrəʊs 恶心

That is so neat. niːt 齐整的

I tried to be casual about it, but it didn't take.
ˈkæʒjʊəl 偶然的；随便的

this monster would open his jaws and start to devour me. ˈmɒnstə  dʒɔː 下颌，下巴  dɪˈvaʊə

erupting volcano   ɪˈrʌpt  爆发  vɒlˈkeɪnəʊ

I had to eat her lousy eggs. ˈlaʊzɪ  恶劣的；讨厌的

cereal ˈsɪərɪəl 谷类

If they don't have a rooster the eggs can't be fertile. ˈfɜːtaɪl 肥沃的，富饶的；丰富的；能繁殖的，可生育的

rubbery ˈrʌbərɪ  橡胶似的

expertise in roosters ˌɛkspɜːˈtiːz 专家

the cornerstone of our plan ˈkɔːnəˌstəʊn  n. 基础，基石；柱石；地基

coop kuːp  笼,鸡舍

strut 昂首阔步

It's all mud and chicken turds. ɡrɑːs 草 mʌd  tɜːd 粪

entire families aren't allergic to eggs  əˈlɜːdʒɪk 过敏

near-death experience in my ongoing saga with Juli Baker had been successfully avoided.
ˈsɑːɡə  n. 传说；冒险故事，英雄事迹

consumed with lies, intrigue and deception.
in'tri:g 阴谋；诡计  dɪˈsɛpʃən  欺骗

I could whip the door open before she knocked. wɪp  鞭打 

embryo ˈɛmbrɪˌəʊ  胚胎

neither rain nor sleet.  sliːt  雨夹雪，冰雹

Don't be so timid. ˈtɪmɪd  胆小的
 
boost buːst 增加，提高，推动   boot buːt 靴子

It's about honesty ˈɒnɪstɪ 

holding a grudge  ɡrʌdʒ  怀恨

she find some way to duck me. dʌk  鸭  逃避

a brother with a severe handicap
sɪˈvɪə  严重的；严厉的  ˈhændɪˌkæp  障碍

Juli's father has a retarded brother.
rɪˈtɑːd  智障

they manage to mow their own lawns. məʊ  割草 草堆

The landlord's supposed to maintain it.
ˈlændˌlɔːd  səˈpəʊz  meɪnˈteɪn

heir family has some chromosomal abnormality.
krəumə'səuməl  染色体的 ˌæbnɔːˈmælɪtɪ 不正常

the umbilical cord wrapped around his neck. ʌm'bilikl  脐带的  ræp 包裹 缠绕

for the grace of God  ɡreɪs 优雅 恩惠

the doctor who delivered you was on the ball  能干

untangled ʌnˈtæŋɡəl  解开

nuthouse ˈnʌtˌhaʊs 精神病院

You can't condemn him for something he hasn't done. kənˈdɛm  谴责；宣判

a spectacular view.  spɛkˈtækjʊlə  壮丽的

satin ˈsætɪn  缎子衣服  gloss  ɡlɒs  光泽  iridescent ˌɪrɪˈdesənt  彩虹色的

it was time to get a grip. ɡrɪp 紧握

a major undertaking. ˈmeɪdʒə    undertaking事业

Are you pruning that or trying to hack it to death? pruːn 修剪  hæk  劈，砍

shrub ʃrʌb 灌木

I think that's a marvelous idea.  ˈmɑːvələs  了不起的
 
The statute of limitations has run out. ˈstætjuːt  法令，法规  statue ˈstætjuː 雕像

I expect everyone to dress accordingly. əˈkɔːdɪŋlɪ  因此，于是；相应地

I convinced myself I'd dodged a bullet.
kənˈvɪns  使确信；说服  dɒdʒ  躲避  ˈbʊlɪt 子弹；解雇通知

My weakness was unnerving.  ʌnˈnɜːv  使丧失勇气

sharpener ˈʃɑːpənə 削笔刀

My life had become a minefield. ˈmaɪnˌfiːld 地雷

Are you freaking mental?  friːk 怪异  ˈmɛntəl  精神的

you gotta nip this in the bud. nɪp 掐，捏  bʌd  萌芽

You feel guilty because of the egg thing. ˈɡɪltɪ  有罪的；内疚的

I insulted her yard.  ˈɪnsʌlt  侮辱，羞辱

I wanted to yell at him.  jel  吼叫

that were starting to creep back in. kriːp 爬行  马屁精

We have a present for you. ˈprɛzənt

pinwheel.  ˈpɪnˌwiːl  风车

mopping the floor  mɒp 用拖把拖；擦拭；扮鬼脸

Nervous energy. ˈnɜːvəs  神经的；紧张不安的

He's got a big crush on you. krʌʃ 压碎 迷恋

Is that the lamest cover-up ? lame  leɪm   跛脚  无说服力的

I saw him sneaking off with Garrett. sniːk  暗中进行的

it's pecan and blueberry cheesecake. pɪˈkæn 美洲山核桃   ˈbluːbərɪ 

perpetual-motion machine pəˈpɛtjʊəl 无期限的；永久的

two opposite charged poles with a neutral conductor
ˈɒpəzɪt 对立物   ˈnjuːtrəl 中立者 中性的 

I wanted to punch him. pʌntʃ 用拳猛击

that makes you a coward. ˈkaʊəd

We are just all so thrilled to be here. θrɪl 兴奋；激动

we've had enough of that scene. siːn 场景

He was a wonderful saxophone player. ˈsæksəˌfəʊn  萨克斯风

musical exploits ˈɛksplɔɪt 开发

He tried to plaster on a smile ˈplɑːstə  掩饰  灰泥；灰浆 创可贴

I think they're a delightful family. dɪˈlaɪtfʊl 讨人喜欢的

You can't just make an accusation like that. ˌækjʊˈzeɪʃən 指责；指控

Don't be so naive. naɪˈiːv

They're probably stealing hubcaps, for chrissake. sti:l   hʌbˌkæp 轮踏盖  ˈkraɪˌseɪk 看在耶稣基督的面上

You are such an asshole.

accurately 'ækjuritli 准确地

became furious all over again. ˈfjʊərɪəs 暴怒的

intention  ɪnˈtɛnʃən  意图；目的

there was something rotten buried just beneath the surface. 
ˈrɒtən  腐烂的  ˈberɪ  埋葬  bɪˈniːθ  在...之下

flutters  ˈflʌtə  摆动；飘动

the annual school fundraiser arrived ˈfʌndˌreɪzə 筹款

This was a beefcake parade. ˈbiːfˌkeɪk  色情表演肌肉发达的男子 pəˈreɪd 游行

Sherry dumped Mitch because of you.

it didn't diminish the horror of being Basketboy.
dɪˈmɪnɪʃ  减小  ˈhɒrə  恐惧

tornado tɔːˈneɪdəʊ 龙卷风

a wad of cash. wɒd  一卷，一叠

hobby ˈhɒbɪ  嗜好

cherry ˈtʃerɪ 樱桃

debate dɪˈbeɪt 辩论

I was contemplating the horrors of this scenario 
ˈkɒntɛmˌpleɪt  ˈhɒrə  sɪˈnɑːrɪˌəʊ  情节；剧本

the boosters will be very grateful for such a generous donation.
ˈbuːstə  支持者 

I was miserable. ˈmɪzərəbəl  痛苦的；令人不快的

you get the most outrageous tan. aʊtˈreɪdʒəs  无法容忍的  tæn 黄褐色

I was possessed .pəˈzest  着魔的

know-it-all nuisance.  ˈnjuːsəns  讨厌的人

The coop-poop babe. kuːp  笼子  pu:p 大便  beɪb  婴儿

rumor has it Sherry's already staking her claim on him. ˈruːmə  谣言  steɪk  打赌

I found myself obsessing about the Basketboy auction. əbˈsɛs 使着迷；使困扰

I could feel myself backsliding about Bryce. ˈbækˌslaɪd  堕落

I'd leave temptation with it. tɛmpˈteɪʃən 诱惑

My strategy suffered a setback when I ran into Mrs. Steuby. ˈsɛtbæk  挫折

Just pretend like I don't have it. prɪˈtɛnd  假装

It's none of your business.

I contemplated the startling turn of events. startle  ˈstɑːtəl  吓一跳

mortal enemy. ˈmɔːtəl 不共戴天的  凡人

Little tricky because the cockpit was recessed. 
ˈtrɪkɪ  狡猾的；微妙的  ˈkɒkˌpɪt  驾驶舱  rɪˈsɛs  使凹进 

intake valves   ˈɪnˌteɪk 摄入 通风口  vælv   阀门

I pedaled home so hard, I thought my lungs would burst.
ˈpɛdəl  踩踏板  bɜːst  爆炸

He even snuck around the house and tapped on my window.
sniːk  偷偷ed  tæp 轻敲

It was torture seeing him dig up my grass. ˈtɔːtʃə  拷问

the texture of the trunk.
ˈtɛkstʃə 纹理   trʌŋk 树干
