Seems to have been a burglary. ˈbɜːɡlərɪ  入室盗窃（罪）

Undiluted cyanide. ˌʌndaɪˈluːtɪd 未稀释 ˈsaɪəˌnaɪd 氰化物

It wouldn't take more than a thimbleful to kill you. ˈθɪmbəlfʊl 极少量

do you get the sense that we're being insulted? sɛns  感觉到  ˈɪnsʌlt  侮辱

He said there was quite a ruckus. ˈrʌkəs 喧闹,骚动

spat in your face. spæt  spit的ed  吐口水

What I could use right now is not a bobby but a really good cleaning lady. ˈbɒbɪ  警察

apron ˈeɪprən  围裙

I'll give you a quid if you can name me a more insufferable sod.
kwid 一英镑  ɪnˈsʌfərəbəl 难以忍受的  sɒd 讨厌的人 <俚;粗，英国>

that'd have been a stellar way to make sure they don't.
ˈstɛlə  星球的；主要的；杰出的

suspicious səˈspɪʃəs 感觉可疑的

mysterious mɪˈstɪərɪəs 神秘的

800,000 children evacuated! i'vækjueit 撤离

Ambassador  æmˈbæsədə  大使

a prodigy in the Maths Department  ˈprɒdɪdʒɪ  天才，神童

how old were you when you became a fellow at Cambridge?
ˈfɛləʊ 伙伴；同事  ˈkeɪmbrɪdʒ

you don't think that qualifies you as a certified prodigy?
ˈsɜːtɪˌfaɪd 被证明的  ˈprɒdɪdʒɪ

Newton discovered Binomial Theorem aged 22.
baɪˈnəʊmɪəl 二项式  ˈθɪərəm  定理

I've barely made par. pɑː  标准；平均数量

Royal Navy. ˈrɔɪəl  ˈneɪvɪ

Are you a bleeding pacifist?  ˈpæsɪfɪst  和平主义者

I'm agnostic about violence. æɡˈnɒstɪk  不可知论者 

there's this nasty little chap called Hitler who wants to engulf Europe in tyranny?
ˈnɑːstɪ  恶劣的   ɪnˈɡʌlf 吞没  ˈjʊərəp  ˈtɪrənɪ 暴政

linguists. ˈlɪŋɡwɪst 语言学家

Allies ˈælaɪz 联盟
 
this would turn into a very short war indeed. ɪnˈdiːd 确实；当然

you wouldn't be hiring cryptographers out of university. krɪpˈtɒɡrəfə

out comes gibberish. ˈdʒɪbərɪʃ 乱语

It's the crooked hand of death itself. krʊk  钩；钩状物

they're nonsense. ˈnɒnsəns 胡说；废话

Polish Intelligence smuggled it out of Berlin.
ɪnˈtɛlɪdʒəns   智力；情报；情报机关  ˈsmʌɡəl 走私，偷带

promptly at midnight. ˈprɒmptlɪ  准时地

rotor ˈrəʊtə 转子 

Mr. Alexander won Britain's national chess championship.
tʃɛs  ˈtʃæmpɪənˌʃɪp 

imminent U-boat assault. ˈɪmɪnənt adj. 即将发生的，逼近的

The trick was that they were encrypted. trɪk 哄骗

Have I offended you in some way? əˈfɛnd 得罪

to pull off this irascible genius routine, one actually has to be a genius.
ɪˈræsɪbəl 易怒的,暴躁的  ˈdʒiniəs 天才  ruːˈtiːn 常规

I am aware of the literal meaning of the word "classified", ˈlɪtərəl 照字面的

Hugh Alexander has denied my requisition for parts and equipment  ˌrɛkwɪˈzɪʃən

It is inspired by an old Polish code machine, ɪnˈspaɪə 鼓舞 启迪

they're all idiots, ˈɪdɪət

Order. Discipline. Chain of command.
ˈdɪsɪplɪn 纪律；训练  tʃeɪn 链

You are a very small cog in a very large system  kɒɡ 齿轮 

You're mediocre linguists and positively poor code-breakers.
ˌmiːdɪˈəʊkə 普通的；中等的  ˈlɪŋɡwɪst ˈpɒzɪtɪvlɪ  肯定地，明确地

But remove the satisfaction, the act becomes hollow. ˈhɒləʊ 空洞的 挖空

a green scratch card book. skrætʃ  打草稿用 

this room's restricted. rɪˈstrɪkt 限制

apologies for my tardiness. The bus caught a flat tyre.
tɑ:dinis 慢,缓慢,迟延   ˈtaɪə  轮胎

I was a candidate for some sort of mysterious job. mɪˈstɪərɪəs

Do you tackle the whole thing at once or divide it into small...
ˈtækəl  处理；与…交涉  索具，滑轮组

you will be executed for high treason.
ˈɛksɪˌkjuːt 实施；将…处死  ˈtriːzən  叛国（罪）；不忠

brilliant  ˈbrɪljənt  光辉的，灿烂的；卓越的，杰出的

Your new minion's arrived. ˈmɪnjən n. 奴才,宠臣

It's not just a usual humdrum production mill factory.
ˈhʌmˌdrʌm 乏味的，单调的  mɪl  磨坊

On the spectrum of radio factories, this one is particularly...
ˈspɛktrəm  光谱，波谱，频谱  系列

with all your men, it would be indecorous.
ɪnˈdɛkərəs  不得体的

clerical tasks. ˈklɛrɪkəl  文职人员的

you won't have proper security clearance  ˈklɪərəns 清除，清扫 放行证

we'll have to improvise things a bit. ˈɪmprəˌvaɪz  即兴创作

You've cracked the case wide open 侦破

That means someone's got rid of them  rɪd  使摆脱，去掉

Radicalised at Cambridge, then they joined the Communist Party. 
ˈrædɪkəˌlaɪz 使激进  ˈkɒmjʊnɪst

took up something murky  ˈmɜːkɪ 阴暗的，黑暗的

the Germans would send our desperately needed bread to the bottom of the ocean.
ˈdespərətlɪ   绝望地  拼命地 梦寐以求

at the chimes of midnight. tʃaɪm  铃声；钟声

the sound would haunt our unwelcome dreams. hɔːnt  栖息地 常出没于

matrix ˈmeɪtrɪks 矩阵；模型 基质；母体；子宫

You arrogant bastard. ˈærəɡənt 傲慢的，自大的   ˈbɑːstəd  杂种，私生子

There are actual soldiers out there trying to win an actual war.
ˈæktʃʊəl  实际的；现行的

My cousins fly RAF patrols. pəˈtrəʊl  巡逻

that vital piece of information  ˈvaɪtəl 重要

Can we find a clue here  kluː 线索

Are you trying to build your universal machine? ˌjuːnɪˈvɜːsəl  普遍的，共同的；广泛适用的

I was precocious. prɪˈkəʊʃəs  早熟的

Encrypted with a phrase from a book or a poem or... 
freɪz 短语   ˈpəʊɪm  诗

I have an idea of what might cheer you up.
tʃɪə 欢呼；鼓舞

He just sort of sips at the foam.
sɪp  一小口  fəum  泡沫

The first person gets down on his knees to pray.The second person starts lacing up his boots.
leɪs 系紧  蕾丝  buːt   靴子

we assume that the square root of two is a rational number,
əˈsjuːm 假定  ˈræʃənəl  理性的

Do not forget your algebra over the break.  ˈældʒɪbrə 代数

If you run the wires across the plugboard matrix diagonally, it will eliminate rotor positions 500 times faster.
ˈmeɪtrɪks 矩阵 daɪˈæɡənəlɪ 对角的 ɪˈlɪmɪˌneɪt 消除  ˈrəʊtə 

Their campaign mounts in fury as a free Europe crumbles.
kæmˈpeɪn  战役；运动  maʊnt 爬上；登上   ˈfjʊərɪ  狂怒，暴怒  ˈkrʌmbəl 弄碎

I cannot let you interfere. ˌɪntəˈfɪə  干扰

Can you point to anything at all that you've achieved?
əˈtʃiːv  取得；成功

our patience has expired.
ɪkˈspaɪəd

Please escort Mr. Turing from the premises.
ɪsˈkɔːt 护卫  ˈprɛmɪsɪz  办公场所，经营场所

I tailed him to a pub last night where he met a bloke.
teɪl  pʌb 酒吧  bləʊk 家伙

So I follow this other fella, pick him up, gave him a good shake.
ˈfɛlə  伙计

for God's sake  seɪk 目的；理由

He's a poofter. He confessed.
ˈpʊftə  <澳俚>脂粉气的男子,搞同性恋的男子  kənˈfɛs  坦白；承认

he's a poof, not a spy.
pʊf 男同性恋者 

We can charge a university professor with indecency.
ɪnˈdiːsənsɪ  不体面,猥亵

He's committed a crime and he's broken the law.
kəˈmɪt 犯（罪）；做（错事）  kraɪm  罪行

This isn't the investigation I was conducting.
ɪnˌvɛstɪˈɡeɪʃən 调查

Let me interrogate him. ɪnˈterəˌɡeɪt 审问

I'll spend the next month running errands on as many rubbish cases as you like.
ˈɛrənd 差事

will someone get me a warrant for the arrest of Alan Turing?
ˈwɒrənt  授权证，许可证

you fragile narcissist
ˈfrædʒaɪl 易碎的  ˈnɑːsɪˌsɪst 自我陶醉者

Hugh's terribly attractive,but I don't really think he's the marrying kind.
ˈtɛrəblɪ  可怕地；非常；很  əˈtræktɪv 有吸引力的

doe dəʊ  母鹿,雌兔等

she pops it in, clamps her lips around it. klæmp  夹紧

You can dance with your fiancé any time you like. fɪˈɒnseɪ  未婚夫

I don't fancy being with Joan ? ˈfænsɪ  想象

women tend to be a bit touchy about accidentally marrying homosexuals.
ˈtʌtʃɪ 敏感的,烦恼的,易怒的  ˌhəʊməʊˈsɛksjʊəl 同性恋

Denniston is looking for any excuse he can to put you away. ɪkˈskjuːs 借口

accused of entreating a young man to touch my penis
əˈkjuːz 控告  ɪnˈtriːt 恳求 ˈpiːnɪs  阴茎 不是复数

A machine is different from a person. Hence they think differently.
hɛns  从此，以后；因此

we allow for humans to have such divergences from one another.
daɪˈvɜːdʒəns  分歧；背离

You like strawberries. ˈstrɔːbərɪ 

I am allergic to pollen.
əˈlɜːdʒɪk  ˈpɒlən 花粉

preferences  ˈprɛfərəns 喜爱；喜爱的事物；优待

The Imitation Game.
ˌɪmɪˈteɪʃən

He's a bit of a cad, actually.
kæd 无赖

I just find it dreadfully fun? ˈdredfʊlɪ 可怕地;

make a woman want to do something she'll later regret with the fiancé's better-looking chum
rɪˈɡrɛt 后悔 fɪˈɒnseɪ  未婚夫  tʃʌm  密友

Half a crown says Alan bollixes this up entirely.
kraʊn 王冠  ˈbɒlɪks  搞乱, 弄糟

because such proximity will necessarily lead to romance.
prɒkˈsɪmɪtɪ  亲密 rəu'mæns 风流韵事

I could appreciate her abilities and intellect
ˈɪntɪˌlɛkt  智力

I'm very flattered really  ˈflætə 奉承；谄媚；使高兴；美于

So I can kick his arse . 屁股

there's no need to worry, it's been chaste.
tʃeɪst 贞洁的

you get to know the rhythm of your counterpart.
ˈrɪðəm 节奏

It's strangely intimate.
ˈɪntɪmɪt 知己，密友

It's a pity he has a girlfriend
ˈpɪtɪ  遗憾

that's what flirting looks like.
flɜːt 调情

The Germans are instructed to use five random letters at the start of every message.
ɪnˈstrʌkt 指示 ˈrændəm

Run voltages through those letters, through the back scramblers.
ˈvəʊltɪdʒ 电压  ˈskræmblə 扰频器

So our convoy suddenly veers off course.
vɪə  改变方向 course 航道

A squadron of RAF bombers miraculously descends on the coordinates of the U-boats.
ˈskwɒdrən 群 mɪˈrækjʊləslɪ  奇迹般的  dɪˈsɛnd  下降  降临  kəʊˈɔːdɪˌneɪt  坐标

A gunnery ensign.
ˈɡʌnərɪ  炮击  ˈɛnsaɪn 海军少尉

Maintain a conspiracy of lies at the highest levels of government?
kənˈspɪrəsɪ 阴谋；阴谋集团

Sounds right up my alley.
ˈælɪ 小街；小巷

It was like having a tap on Himmler's intercom.
ˈɪntəˌkɒm 连络用对讲电话装置


Secrecy became the primary concern
ˈpraɪmərɪ   kənˈsɜːn

Churchill's too damn paranoid.
ˈpærəˌnɔɪd 偏执狂患者

He won't share a shred of intelligence with the Soviets.
ʃrɛd 碎片

He's really not the brightest bulb,
bʌlb  电灯泡；球茎

I harbour no intention of being the perfect wife.
ˈhɑːbə 窝藏，庇护（罪犯等）；怀有  ɪnˈtɛnʃən 意图

I'll not be fixing your lamb all day while you come home from the office.
læm 羔羊

The war dragged on for two more solitary years,and every day we performed our blood-soaked calculus. 
ˈsɒlɪtərɪ  独居的 孤独的 səʊk  ˈkælkjʊləs  微积分学；结石

The invasion of Normandy.
ɪnˈveɪʒən 侵略

this epic battle between civilisations.
ˈɛpɪk 史诗般的

Freedom versus tyranny. Democracy versus Nazism.
ˈvɜːsəs  对阵 ˈtɪrənɪ 暴政  dɪˈmɒkrəsɪ  ˈnɑːtsɪzəm

Planes dropping bombs from the sky until they obliterated the sun itself.
əˈblɪtəˌreɪt 消灭；毁掉 抹除

crossword enthusiasts
ɪnˈθjuːzɪˌæst 爱好者

This is a solemn but glorious hour.
ˈsɒləm 庄严的  ˈɡlɔːrɪəs 光荣的

Tear it down, light it up. Sweep away the ashes
swiːp 打扫 ˈæʃ 灰烬  骨灰 

Am I a criminal?
ˈkrɪmɪnəl 罪犯

the two of you are positively inseparable.
ˈpɒzɪtɪvlɪ 肯定地，明确地  ɪnˈsepərəbəl

because the maths class is too dull?
dʌl 无聊的

he had bovine tuberculosis,
ˈbəʊvaɪn 牛的  tjʊˌbɜːkjʊˈləʊsɪs  肺结核

he had a stiff upper lip about it.
stɪf 硬的

Good lad.
læd 青年男子

I would have testified.
ˈtɛstɪˌfaɪ  作证

you're twitching  twɪtʃ  抽搐

hormonal therapy.
hɔːˈməʊnəl  荷尔蒙的，激素的

Chemical castration.
kæs'treiʃən  阉割

To to cure me of my homosexual predilections.
ˌpriːdɪˈlɛkʃən 嗜好，偏爱

a whole field of scientific inquiry that only exists because of you.
ɪnˈkwaɪərɪ 询问 探究
