我看到潮汐在沙滩上刻出沟纹
l see powerful tides carving furrows in the sand.
taɪd      ˈfəroʊ

我看到盐水洗白了旱地
l see the salt bleaching the arid earth.
bliːtʃ  漂白    ˈærɪd  干旱的

bacteria  bækˈtɪərɪə 细菌

descendant  dɪˈsendənt  后代

供我们裁切  冶炼以及加工
We work materials, meld steel, cut and slice.
meld  融合   slaɪs  切薄

grasp ɡrɑːsp  抓住

我们不断攫取海洋来滋养自己
We delve unceasingly into the ocean to nourish ourselves.
delv 挖掘   ʌn'si:siŋli  不断  ˈnərɪʃ  滋养

depletion of resources  dɪˈpliːʃən 耗尽

伴以剧烈的震动
shaken by violent convulsions.
ˈvaɪələnt  剧烈  kənˈvʌlʃən 震动 痉挛
熔化物经受着
The fusing matter was subjected to violent bombardments of meteors coming from the solar system.
fjuːz  ˌbɒmˈbɑːdmənt 轰炸  ˈmiːtɪə   流星 大气现象 ˈsəʊlə


stormy, red with nitrogen, carbon and hydrogen. And water vapour
ˈnaɪtrədʒən  ˈveɪpə 蒸气

an enormous bubble
ɪˈnɔːməs  bʌbl

Then the inferno cooled off and the vapours condensed,
ɪnˈfəːnəʊ 地狱  kənˈdenst 浓缩


terrestrial floods təˈrestrɪəl 地球上的

the Earth's crust. krʌst 壳

the primordial rock.  praɪˈmɔːdɪəl  原始岩


eroding it away and becoming laden with salts.
ɪˈrəʊd 侵蚀  ˈleɪdən 载满的

glaciations  gleisi'eiʃən  冰河期

Equator  ɪˈkweɪtə 赤道

This contrast between the hot regions and the cold regions
ˈkɒntrɑːst 对照 差别  kəʊld

The winds descend, cold and heavy, from the polar regions
dɪˈsend 下降

These winds, curved by the rotation of the Earth,form gigantic whirlpool.
kəːvd 曲线  rəʊˈteɪʃən 旋转 dʒaɪˈɡæntɪk 庞大的  ˈwəːlˌpuːl  漩涡

Then this water cools, becomes more dense, laden with salt,
dens  稠密的  ˈleɪdən  载满的

a temperate climate on Earth.
ˈtɛmpərɪt

explosion  ɪkˈspləʊʒən  爆发

drift in the water  drɪft  漂流

the rays penetrate the ocean.  ˈpenɪˌtreɪt  穿透

the vegetation of the planet  ˌvedʒɪˈteɪʃən  植被

These are protists, very ancient organisms.
prəutist 原生生物  ˈeɪnʃənt  ˈɔːɡəˌnɪzəm 

the distinction between plant and animal is blurred.
dɪˈstɪŋkʃən 区别

augmenting their surface area exposed to the sun.
ɔːɡˈment  增大

herbivorous animals  həːˈbɪvərəs

the innumerable tiny shrimps  ɪˈnjuːmərəbəl  无数的  ˈtaɪnɪ   ʃrimp

graze on the algae  ɡreɪz  吃草

a sort of tiny sea flea who swim by leaping, propelled by their limbs.
fliː 跳蚤  liːp 跳跃  prəˈpel  驱动

hunted by the carnivores  ˈkɑːnɪˌvɔː  食肉动物

arrow-shaped   ˈærəʊ

voracious  vɒˈreɪʃəs 贪婪的 

ln this jungle, prey and predators mingle constantly
ˈdʒʌŋɡəl 丛林  preɪ   ˈmɪŋɡəl  混杂

consume the preceding predators.  prɪˈsiːdɪŋ  之前的

gelatinous animals,  dʒɪˈlætɪnəs  胶状

ln perfect harmony with the liquid environment,
ˈhɑːmənɪ  舒适

they have an elastic body,  ɪˈlæstɪk  有弹性的

allows them simultaneously to suck in food and to move. ˌsɪməlˈteɪnɪəslɪ  同时地  sʌk  吮吸 

devoured by a lack of resources  dɪˈvaʊə  毁灭

they manoeuvre in perfect formation. məˈnuːvə  演习

a fundamental law of the group. ˌfʌndəˈmentəl 基本规则

lt enables them to hunt as a shoal   ʃəʊl 鱼群

lts dorsal fin gives it exceptional stability to achieve its predatory goals.
ˈdɔːsəl 背部的  fɪn 鳍 stəˈbɪlɪtɪ  əˈtʃiːv   ˈpredətərɪ

The food chain is a hierarchy, a pyramid structure.
ˈhaɪəˌrɑːkɪ  等级体系  ˈpɪrəmɪd

remove the host's parasites.  ˈpærəˌsaɪt 寄生虫

Solidarity also has a role in this liquid immensity  ˌsɒlɪˈdærɪtɪ 团结  ɪˈmensɪtɪ 广大

previously ˈpriːvɪəslɪ  原本

erosion sculpted the rock into an elaborate graveyard,
ɪˈrəʊʒən  侵蚀  skʌlpt  ɪˈlæbərɪt 错综复杂

a labyrinth of 1 ,500 islands of fossilised plankton.
ˈlæbərɪnθ   迷宫

a region rich in biodiversity  ˌbaɪəʊdaɪˈvəːsɪtɪ  生物多样性

some plankton abandoned nomadic life and settled here.  nəʊˈmædɪk  流浪

the calcareous skeleton  kælˈkeərɪəs  钙质骨骼

To survive in these waters scarce in nutrients  skeəs 缺乏的  ˈnjuːtrɪənt  营养品

This petrified forest ˈpetrɪfaɪd  石化

A veritable oasis. ˈverɪtəbəl  真正的

Even the colours of the fish represent camouflage or seduction.
ˈkæməˌflɑːʒ  伪装   sɪˈdʌkʃən  迷惑

Like a marvellous marine city  ˈmɑːvələs 不可思议的

The scorpion fish camouflages itself, ˈskɔːpɪən  蝎子

As in every cosmopolitan city, life in the reef is not spontaneous.
ˌkɒzməˈpɒlɪtən 国际化的  spɒnˈteɪnɪəs 自发的

Concealment becomes an art for these octopi,
kənˈsiːlmənt 章鱼  ˈɒktəpəs ai复数  隐匿

to deceive their attackers. dɪˈsiːv 欺骗

many species use the reef as a nursery. ˈnəːsrɪ  婴儿室  苗圃

Cuttlefish  乌贼

The tentacles of the anemones are poisonous, even deadly.
ˈtentəkəl  触手  əˈnemənɪ  海葵  ˈpɔɪzənəs  剧毒

clown fish klaʊn  小丑鱼

This natural vaccination then enables them to use the anemone as a refuge.
ˌvæksɪˈneɪʃən  接种疫苗  ˈrefjuːdʒ 避难所

a distant cousin of the jellyfish  ˈkʌzən

it can digest living things  ˈdaɪˌdʒest 消化

an extraordinary event occurs. ɪkˈstrɔːdənrɪ 神奇的

gametes. gæ'mi:t 配子

synchronisation  ˌsɪŋkrənaɪˈzeɪʃən  同步

The larvae are dispersed by the current  dɪˈspəːs 散播

They leave to conquer a new territory. ˈkɒŋkə  攻克

to perpetuate the immense coral city  pəˈpetʃʊˌeɪt 使永存

the grouper make a long voyage ˈɡruːpə   ˈvɔɪɪdʒ 石斑鱼经过长途旅程

solitary community  ˈsɒlɪtərɪ  孤独的
 
lagoon ləˈɡuːn  环湖

attended by marauding grey sharks. məˈrɔːd  劫掠

They will massacre many of the grouper, ˈmæsəkə  大屠杀

but this predation, paradoxically, is vital for the grouper as a species,
ˌpærə'dɒksɪkli  反常地  ˈvaɪtəl  至关重要

Their hammer-shaped head acts like a fin and promotes agility.
ˈhæmə  锤状  əˈdʒɪlɪtɪ  敏捷 

lt's as if the cycle of predation governed the evolution of species. ˈɡʌvən  统治

we conceived boats to cross the oceans. kənˈsiːv  受孕

we conquered the ocean via the land. ˈkɒŋkə  征服  ˈvaɪə 借助

practised and transmitted from generation to generation. ˈpræktɪst 经验丰富的

we cultivate seaweed and extract from it a nourishing gelatine.
ˈekstrækt 提取  ˈnʌrɪʃɪŋ  有营养的  ˈdʒeləˌtiːn  胶质

We trace out small portions of sea and transform estuaries into private concessions.
ˈestjʊərɪ 河口  kənˈseʃən   特许权 让步

hectares ˈhekteə  公顷

kombu  ˈkɒmbuː 海带

These sugar-flavoured leaves contain proteins, mineral salts and vitamins.
ˈfleɪvə 风味  kənˈteɪn ˈvɪtəmɪn  ˈvaɪtəmɪn

We use probes, radar, and focus all our ingenuity.  prəʊb  ˌɪndʒɪˈnjuːɪtɪ  心灵手巧

scoop skuːp  铲

But who can prevent us from exceeding them?
prɪˈvɛnt 阻止  ɪkˈsiːd 超过

have been declared fully exploited or overexploited. ˈeksplɔɪt 利用

the rejects of the catch, rɪˈdʒɛkt 废品  驳回

got crushed to death in our nets. krʌʃ  压碎

we rake further and further, deeper and deeper. reɪk  钉齿耙

The fauna of the abyss ˈfɔːnə 动物群  əˈbɪs  深渊

Life flourishes around this absence of light  
ˈflʌrɪʃ  繁荣  ˈæbsəns  缺席 缺乏

These gelatinous creatures possess luminous organs to frighten off their enemies.
dʒɪˈlætɪnəs 胶状  ˈkriːtʃə  pəˈzes  拥有  ˈluːmɪnəs  发光的  ˈɔːɡən 器官 ˈfraɪtən 吓

in the ocean twilight, ˈtwaɪˌlaɪt  黄昏

the swim bladders they use to float  ˈblædə  膀胱

A terrifying bestiary. ˈterɪˌfaɪɪŋ 恐惧 ˈbestɪərɪ 动物寓言集

Gulper eels that gobble everything which passes.
iːl  鳝/鳗  ˈɡɒbəl  狼吞虎咽

lt's the kingdom of the vampire squid, a prehistoric cousin of the squid.
ˈvæmpaɪə 吸血鬼  skwɪd  ˌpriːhɪˈstɒrɪk 史前的  ˈkʌzən

The vampire squid has blue blood laced with copper.
ˈvæmpaɪə   leɪs 蕾丝  ˈkɒpə

lts enormous eyes detect slight variations in contrast above it
ɪˈnɔːməs   ˌveərɪˈeɪʃən  变化 ˈkɒntrɑːst  对比

marsh mɑːʃ 沼泽

crabs, eels and carnivorous sponges gorge on it.
kɑːˈnɪvərəs 肉食 ˈspʌndʒɪ 海绵  ɡɔːdʒ 狼吞虎咽

We're looking to feed our addiction to oil. əˈdɪkʃən  嗜好

alliance 联合

particles of seaweed which come down from the surface, ˈpɑːtɪkəl 微粒

but rather slowly melts down into an organic substance, viscous and black.
melt 熔化  ˈsʌbstəns  物质  ˈvɪskəs 粘的

We began by pumping out the shallow deposits.
pʌmp  泵  ˈʃæləʊ  浅处

flame fleɪm 火焰  drill drɪl  钻  rig  rɪɡ 钻探设备

we burn the equivalent of a million years of laying down of plankton.
ɪˈkwɪvələnt 等量的

ships carrying thousands of identical metal boxes. aɪˈdentɪkəl 一模一样的 

All the sea routes converge on Asia. kənˈvəːdʒ 汇集

was razed to build a freshwater port. reɪz  将…夷为平地

On the kilometres of quayside,giant cranes unload every year 30 million containers,
ˈkiːˌsaɪd  码头周围  kreɪn  起重机

This relentless growth of the ship industry rɪˈlentlɪs  不断  ˈɪndəstrɪ

planks  plæŋk  木板

destined to be exported all over the world. ˈdestɪn  指定  ˈɛkspɔːt

Our tentacular towns sprout like mushrooms. ten'tækjulə  触手的  spraʊt 新芽 迅猛发展

Shanghai is a symbol of our headlong rush. ˈhedˌlɒŋ 头向前的 rʌʃ 冲

Twenty-three million people are living in the Shanghai megalopolis. ˌmeɡəˈlɒpəlɪs 巨大都市

a frenzy of construction climbing towards the sky. ˈfrenzɪ 狂热

ln barely 200 years, ˈbeəlɪ  仅仅

We spit out polluting materials in all directions into the air and the ocean. spɪt 吐唾沫

This phenomenon is amplified. ˈæmplɪˌfaɪ  扩大

The ocean itself is accelerating the warming. əkˈseləreɪt

the glaciers which cover the protruding land
ˈɡlæsɪə 冰川  prəˈtruːd  伸出

lt churns the water  tʃəːn  搅动

rogue ship-owners send poor fishermen to pillage the last zones rich in fish.
rəʊɡ 流氓  ˈpɪlɪdʒ 抢劫

On their ramshackle boats, these men are abandoned,
ˈræmˌʃækəl  破烂不堪的  əˈbændənd 无约束的

with rations arriving once a month, if they're lucky.
ˈræʃən 配给

pirate fishing ships. ˈpaɪrɪt 海盗  非法窃用

Hundreds of boats seized off this coast, abandoned wrecks, 
siːz  扣押 rek 残骸 失事 交通事故

the illegal ships transfer their cargo onto authorised ships
ɪˈliːɡəl   ˈɔːθəˌraɪzd  授权的

sell their catch legally on the international markets. ˈliːɡəlɪ 合法地

on the verge of extinction. vəːdʒ 边缘 ɪkˈstɪŋkʃən

then fattened up in a farm before slaughter  ˈslɔːtə 屠宰

Corruption and lies are everywhere. kəˈrʌpʃən 腐败

The tuna fishing fleets benefit from millions of euros of European subsidies.
fliːt 舰队 ˌjʊərəˈpɪən  ˈsʌbsɪdɪ  补助

We respect no quotas, ˈkwəʊtə 限额

we don't take any precautions at all for the preservation of the species.
prɪˈkɔːʃən 预防 ˌprezəˈveɪʃən 保护

Other species are proliferating. prəˈlɪfəˌreɪt 增长

The disappearance of the tuna destabilises a millennial balance.
diːˈsteɪbɪˌlaɪz  mɪˈlenɪəl 一千年的

We tip six billion kilos of plastic waste per year into the sea. tɪp 倾倒 

Plastic, which doesn't decompose, but which micro-fragments. ˌdiːkəmˈpəʊz  腐烂 分解

That's why, since the dawn of time, everything that lives on Earth respects rhythms and limits.
dɔːn 黎明 ˈrɪðəm  节奏

That's the origin of the famous law of natural equilibrium.
ˈɒrɪdʒɪn  ˌiːkwɪˈlɪbrɪəm 平衡

l evolve through consensus, in a group. kənˈsensəs 一致

l can't just choose to radically change the way things are going. ˈrædɪkəlɪ  彻底地

our political elites voted for 2,500 recommendations for protecting the planet.
ɪˈliːt 精英  ˌrekəmenˈdeɪʃən

summits  ˈsʌmɪt 峰会

corruption, passivity, have prevented any action
kəˈrʌpʃən 腐败  pæˈsɪvɪtɪ 被动  prɪˈvent 阻止

Time is catching up with us.
时间已经十分紧迫

we are headed for catastrophe. kəˈtæstrəfɪ 大灾难

we built a colossus, a symbol of eternity,
kəˈlɒsəs  巨人 ɪˈtəːnɪtɪ  永恒

No religion, no belief will save us.
rɪˈlɪdʒən  宗教

treaty ˈtriːtɪ
条约

genetic  dʒɪˈnetɪk  heritage ˈherɪtɪdʒ 
基因遗产
